1. The events are generated using pythia8 and outputed into root files. The generating code is 1_event_gen.py and the output files are signal.root and background.root.
Before pushing this repo to github, we deleted the pythia setup files (pythia 8313), because they are large files. To test event_gen.py code, please copy and paste the neccessary pythia files from your local desktop into the same repo. 
The trigger efficiency for the signal is 7.61% and the for the background data 1.75%

2.
a. 2a_muon_selection.py code takes a while to run, since we are accessing each event and looping inside of it to apply the smearing, pT selection and track isolation. 
    Output: Total events analyzed: 7610, events passing: 4704
    Events that pass the selection are stored into another root file, pure_muon.root, for further analyses.

b. invariant_mass.py code computes the invariant mass of muon pairs from signal and background ROOT files, using smeared, preselected signal muons and unsmeared background data. 
It then normalizes the event distributions using known cross-sections and integrated luminosity, and plots histograms showing the signal, background, and combined invariant mass spectra.
    Plot file: Invariant_mass.png

c. This part is also done in the same file as part b, invariant_mass.py. 
    Output:
        Fit signal peak: mu = 91.13 GeV, sigma = 1.58 GeV
        Mass window: 80–100 GeV
        Estimated Signal (NS): 215229.1 fb
        Estimated Background (NB): 283840.3 fb
        Statistical Significance: 403.98σ
        Required luminosity for 5σ: 0.0 fb⁻¹
        Estimated time at CMS: 0.00 years

3. The analysis follows a well-established methodology used in high-energy physics: applying realistic detector smearing, implementing selection criteria, normalizing Monte Carlo samples using theoretical cross-sections and integrated luminosity, and fitting the invariant mass distribution with appropriate signal and background models. So the result is must be reliable. 
However, while the results are statistically significant they may not be fully convincing without incorporating systematic uncertainties, realistic detector efficiencies, pileup effects, and higher-order corrections to the cross-sections. To make the study more realistic, I would use a full detector simulation (e.g., GEANT4-based), validate my background mode and perform uncertainty propagation on the fit and final significance. Only then results can be confidently presented to the broader scientific community.